.\" '\" t
.\" This page is based on the lilo docs/source, which carry the following
.\" COPYING condition:
.\" 
.\" LILO program code, documentation and auxiliary programs are
.\" Copyright 1992-1994 Werner Almesberger.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms of parts of or the
.\" whole original or derived work are permitted provided that the
.\" original work is properly attributed to the author. The name of the
.\" author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\" this software without specific prior written permission. This work
.\" is provided "as is" and without any express or implied warranties.
.\" 
.\" Original version of this manpage: 
.\" Peter Maydell (pmaydell@chiark.greenend.org.uk), 03/1998
.\" 
.TH "KEYTAB-LILO.PL" "8" "April 1998" "" ""
.SH "NAME"
keytab\-lilo \- compile keytables files for use with LILO
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B /usr/sbin/keytab\-lilo
.RB [ \-p
.I R old_code = new_code ]
.RB ...
.RI [ default_layout ] " kbd_layout"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
.B keytab\-lilo
is a program which compiles keytable definitions (in the format
specified in 
.BR keytables(5) ) 
into a format which can be used by 
.B lilo(8)
to set the keyboard type when booting
[using the 
.B keytable
parameter in
.BR /etc/lilo.conf ].

.I kbd_layout
should be the name of a map file which specifies the desired 
keyboard layout. This file may be a 
.B gzip(1) 
compressed map. If no file extension is given,
.B .map.gz
is assumed. If the full pathname is not specified,
.B /usr/share/keymaps/
is assumed.

Since 
.B lilo 
essentially needs to know the differences between
the BIOS keyboard mapping and the one you require, the
.I default_layout
file should contain a 
.B keytables(5) 
file for the BIOS default mapping. If no 
.I default_layout
file is specified,
.B us.map.gz
is used.

.B keytab\-lilo
writes the output translation table as a binary string to standard
output, so you should redirect it to a suitable file. 
.B lilo
has no particular restrictions on the name of keyboard translation
files, but the suggested naming convention and location is
.BI /boot/ mapping .ktl
(where
.B .ktl
stands for "Keyboard Table for Lilo").
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 
.B \-p
.I R old_code = new_code
.br 
Specifies corrections ("patches") to the mapping obtained from the 
translation table files. E.g. if pressing the upper case "A" should 
yield an at sign, \-p 65=64 would be used. The  \-p  option can be 
repeated any number of times. The codes can also be given as 
hexadecimal or as octal numbers if they are prefixed with 0x or 0, 
respectively. 

.SH "EXAMPLES"
.TP 
.B keytab\-lilo dvorak >/boot/dvorak.ktl

This is the most common form of invocation; it simply compiles the
given map file (in this case dvorak) and puts the result in
.BR /boot/dvorak.ktl .

.SH "AUTHOR"
Werner Almesberger (almesber@bernina.ethz.ch).
.br 
Peter Maydell (pmaydell@chiark.greenend.org.uk) wrote this manual page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR lilo (8),
.BR keytables (5),
.BR gzip (1)
