=for header
manpage:  LILO-UUID-DISKID
section:  8
title:    lilo documentation
version:  24.0
datum:    2013-05-07

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

lilo-uuid-diskid - convert boot / root options to diskid and uuid in lilo.conf.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<lilo-uuid-diskid> [B<-h>] [B<-v>] [B<lilo.conf>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This script looks for the boot block device or boot partition and create the
right diskid or uuid as boot option. Then it looks for all root partitions
and create the right uuids as root options.

These conversions are necessary for use with newer kernel (>= 2.6.26) if it
use the libata module for parallel and serial ATA interfaces of block devices
(i. e. hard disks with IDE or SATA interface, usbsticks).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>

Print a brief help.

=item B<-v>

Print verbose messages.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Lines in the configuration file /etc/lilo.conf:

  #boot = /dev/sda
  boot = /dev/disk/by-id/ata-SAMSUNG_SV1604N_S01FJ10X999999

  #root = /dev/sda1
  root = "UUID=/dev/disk/by-uuid/18843936-00f9-4df0-a373-000d05a5dd44"

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2010-2013 Joachim Wiedorn

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by 
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or 
(at your option) any later version.

=head1 AUTHOR

B<lilo-uuid-diskid> was written by Joachim Wiedorn.

This manual page was written by Joachim Wiedorn <ad_debian at joonet.de>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<lilo>(8), B<update-lilo>(8), B<liloconfig>(8)

=cut
