=for header
manpage:  LILOCONFIG
section:  8
title:    liloconfig documentation
version:  24.0
datum:    2013-05-07

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

liloconfig - create new lilo.conf file (with diskid and uuid)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<liloconfig> [B<-h>] [B<-v>] [B<-f>] [B<lilo.conf>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

liloconfig is an simple program for creating a new lilo.conf file.
After creating the new configuration file you must execute '/sbin/lilo'.

liloconfig use the lilo.example.conf file as template. In the final
lilo.conf file you find many useful comments for custom changes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-h>

Print a brief help.

=item B<-v>

Print verbose messages.

=item B<-f>

Force overriding existing lilo.conf.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Lines in the configuration file /etc/lilo.conf:

  ### LILO global section ###

  #large-memory
  lba32
  boot = /dev/sda
  map = /boot/map
  install = menu
  menu-scheme = Wb:Yr:Wb:Wb
  prompt
  timeout = 100
  vga = normal
  #default = Linux

  ### LILO per-image section ###

  #boot = /dev/sda
  boot = /dev/disk/by-id/ata-SAMSUNG_SV1604N_S01FJ10X999999

  image = /boot/vmlinuz-3.5.0-trunk-686
      label = "Linux"
      #root = /dev/sda1
      root = "UUID=18843936-00f9-4df0-a373-000d05a5dd44"
      read-only
  #   restricted
  #   alias = 1
  #   optional
      initrd = /boot/initrd.img-3.5.0-trunk-686

  image = /boot/vmlinuz-3.2.0-4-686
      label = "Linux Old"
      #root = /dev/sda1
      root = "UUID=18843936-00f9-4df0-a373-000d05a5dd44"
      read-only
  #   restricted
  #   alias = 2
  #   optional
      initrd = /boot/initrd.img-3.2.0-4-686

=head1 COPYRIGHT and LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011-2013 Joachim Wiedorn

This script is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by 
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or 
(at your option) any later version.

=head1 AUTHOR

B<lilconfig> was written by Joachim Wiedorn.

This manual page was written by Joachim Wiedorn <ad_debian at joonet.de>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<lilo>(8), B<update-lilo>(8), B<lilo-uuid-diskid>(8)

=cut
