'\" t
.\" @(#)mkrescue.8
.\" This page is part of the LILO package, which is released by
.\" the author(s) under a BSD license.  See the file COPYING
.\" in the LILO source directory for the license and disclaimer.
.\"
.\" Original for lilo 22.1, John Coffman   2001-10-31
.\" Updated  for lilo 22.5.4, John Coffman  2003-05-24
.\" Updated  for lilo 22.6.1, John Coffman   2004-11-16
.\" Updated  for lilo 23.1, Martin Eberhard Schauer 2011-03-06
.\" (Reformatted to better match Linux man-pages conventions)

.TH MKRESCUE 8 "6 Mar 2011"

.SH NAME
mkrescue \- make rescue floppy or CD

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/mkrescue
makes a bootable rescue floppy or CD using the default kernel specified in
.IR lilo.conf .

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkrescue\fP takes its specifation for the kernel from the default image
specified in \fI/etc/lilo.conf\fP.
If the actual default is an \fIother=\fP specification, then use the first
\fIimage=\fP specification.
Any associated initial ramdisk (\fIinitrd=\fP), and \fIappend=\fP options
will also be used.
The root directory will be taken to be the \fIcurrent\fP root.
A bootable floppy or CD-image will be created using LILO version
22.5.5 or later.
\fBmkrescue\fP normally requires no options, unless a CD-image is desired
(\fB--iso\fP).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--append\fP <string>
Override any \fIappend=\fP options taken from the default image.
If there is any doubt about whether the \fIlilo.conf\fP
options are correct, then specify no kernel parameters by providing the
null string (\fB--append ""\fP).

.TP
.B --debug
Provide verbose output of the operation of
.BR mkrescue ,
pausing to allow the setting of internal operating parameters to be viewed.
<CR> must be hit to proceed from these pauses.

.TP
\fB--device\fP <device>
Make the floppy on a device other than \fI/dev/fd0\fP.
The floppy disk will always be made to boot on BIOS device code 0x00 (A:
drive), without regard to the drive on which it is created.

.TP
.B --fast
Use a faster method of creating the boot floppy.
This involves first creating a file of \fB--size\fP 1k blocks (default
is 1440) mounted using a loopback device, creating the bootable floppy,
then copying the entire file to the disk.

.TP
\fB--fs\fP [ \fIext2\fP | \fImsdos\fP | \fIminix\fP ]
Specify the type of filesystem to create on the drive.
\fIext2\fP is the default, but \fImsdos\fP and \fIminix\fP allow
slightly more disk sectors for really big kernels.

.TP
.B --help
Print a short usage synopsis, including a list of command options.

.TP
\fB--image\fP <label>
Specifies the label or alias of the particular image from which the
append, initial ramdisk, root, keytable, and kernel information is to
be taken.

.TP
\fB--initrd\fP \fI<filepath>\fP and \fB--kernel\fP \fI<filepath>\fP
These options, which must be used together, allow specification of an
arbitrary kernel file and initial ramdisk file to be used on the created
boot floppy.
Be sure you know what you are doing before you use these options.
If no inital ramdisk is needed with a particular kernel, then you MUST
specify \fB--initrd ""\fP, meaning a null pathname.

.TP
\fB--install\fP [ \fItext\fP | \fImenu\fP ]
Allows overriding the default human interface used with the rescue
bootloader (configuration file "install=" option). \fItext\fP is the
default on 1.2MB and 1.44MB floppy disks, and \fImenu\fP is the default
on 2.88MB floppies and HD emulation on CD-R media.

.TP
.BI --iso
Create an ISO-9660 bootable CD image (El Torito Format) suitable for
burning to a CD-R or CD-RW.  The \fB--device\fP specification defaults to
the filename \fIrescue.iso\fP, and the \fB--size\fP defaults to 2880.
A utility such as "wodim" may be used to burn the ISO file to a
recordable CD medium.
With this ISO option, the \fB--size\fP \fIHD\fP option is allowed.

.TP
.BI --nocompact
For faster kernel loading from a floppy, LILO map compaction is normally
enabled.
This option will disable map compaction by omitting the lilo \fB-c\fP
switch.

.TP
.BI --noformat
Suppresses creation of a new filesystem on the boot floppy.
This option may be used ONLY
when you know that the floppy you will be writing upon is formatted with the
same filesystem as specified by \fB--fs\fP \fIXXX\fP (default is \fIext2\fP).

.TP
\fB--root\fP \fI<device>\fP
Specify the root filesystem for the kernel on the boot floppy.
The currently mounted root is taken as the default specification.

.TP
\fB--size\fP [ \fI1440\fP | \fI1200\fP | \fI2880\fP | \fIHD\fP ]
The default floppy disk size is \fI1440\fP, meaning a 1.44MB floppy.
When \fB--iso\fP is specified, the default size is \fI2880\fP.
Allowed specifications are \fI1200\fP, \fI1440\fP, or \fI2880\fP, meaning
a 1.2MB, 1.44MB or 2.88MB floppy, respectively.
No other floppy disk sizes are supported.
.sp
The \fIHD\fP specification, meaning "hard disk", may only be used with
the \fB--iso\fP option, to indicate a 16MB hard disk is to be generated
for emulation.
This allows for very large kernel/initial ramdisk combinations on CD-R.
The hard disk image is created using loopback devices \fI/dev/loop0\fP
and \fI/dev/loop1\fP, which must be free to utilize this size option.

.TP
.BI --version
Print the version number of \fBmkrescue\fP, then terminate.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cdrecord (1),
.BR dd (1),
.BR wodim (1),
.BR lilo.conf (5),
.BR lilo (8),
.BR mkfs (8),
.BR mkinitrd (8),
.BR mkisofs (8),
.BR mount (8)

.\" .SH "AUTHOR"
.\" John Coffman <johninsd@san.rr.com>
